A cat, a parrot and a bag of seed

A man finds himself on a riverbank with a cat, a parrot and a bag of seed. He needs to transport all three to the other side of the river in his boat. However, the boat has room for only the man himself and one other item (either the cat, parrot or seed). In his absence, the cat could eat the parrot, and the parrot would eat the bag of seed. Show how he can get all the passengers to the other side, without leaving the wrong ones alone together.
Define the problem
The problem is that the man needs to get his three items across the river. He cannot leave specific items alone.  For example he cannot leave the parrot alone with the either the cat or the seed but he can leave the cat with the seed. 
Break the problem apart
This would mean that he would have to keep the parrot away from these two in such away that the parrot cannot cause problems to the seed or that cat cause problems to the parrot.
The main goal is to get across the river with the sub goal of getting all other animals and items across safely.
Evaluate a potential solution
One potential solution could be for the man to take the parrot across first.  Followed by going to get the seed. When the man goes to drop off the Seed However he takes the parrot back with him. This would leave the seed on one side of the river with the man and parrot and cat together on the other side.  The man should then take the cat across the river leaving the parrot by its self-again.  With the cat and the seed on the end side of the river man would be free to go back again to go get the parrot and come back leaving everyone and everything on the end side of the river.


Socks in The Dark:

There are 20 socks in a drawer: 5 pairs of black socks, 3 pairs of brown and 2 pairs of white. You select the socks in the dark and can check them only after a selection has been made. What is the smallest number of socks you need to select to guarantee getting the following:
a) At least one matching pair
b) At least one matching pair of each color.

Define The Problem:

The problem is one of probability. Essentially it is asking what are the probabilities of these particular situations.

1) What are the chances that you pull one matching pair?
2) What are the chances that you pull one matching color of each color?

Break apart the Problem

Constraints:
	5 pairs of black socks = 10 black socks
	3 pairs of brown socks = 6 brown socks
	2 pairs of white socks = 4 white socks
	For situation one:
There is no limit to how many times you can reach in the drawer.  There is only the constraint that you reach in the least that you have to in order to get what you need. The things that you need are: At least one matching pair, and at least one matching pair of each color.

The sub goals:
 For this particular problem there really is only one sub goal of "reach into the drawer the least amount times." added to that though we could say that "pulling the least amount of socks" would be a another sub goal teetering on the subject on another main goal.
 
Solution

One matching pair

The solution for the sock in the dark riddle is simple. The first thing it's asking is the least amount of times one would have to pull out a sock to guarantee a matching pair. With this constraint the answer is 4 socks.. There are total number 3 different kinds of socks so anything over that number would produce a duplicate sock creating a pair.

one matching pair of each color.

The answer here is 18. The question here is saying least number you would need to pull to get one pair of every kind.  It is 18 because there are 10 black socks which theoretically you could pull all at one time, 6 brown socks that you could also theoretically you could pull all at one time, leaving you at 16 and 4 pairs of white socks meaning theoretically if your circumstances were such that this did happen all that is left is whit so you would have to pull only 2.
